This project was something I am glad I decided to do in order to expand my knowldege on the use of AI in cybersecurity. Using ai has shown me what exactly ai can do in the subject of cyber security as a log tool but I've also learned interesting things from researching ai in cybersecuity. 

Starting with the good, Ai is actually extremely good at noticing patterns in logs (i used wireshark logs from malware-traffic-analysis.net to test my app). The ai got most if not all suspicous lines as desired. When combined with Ollama running locally the ai seems to be more secure than I expected but would need to research into see exactly how secure it is, it seems at least this is the prefered method in cyber security fields. While providing claude with my exact guidelines that I wanted while making it ask me as many questions as possible also resulted in a fairly quick turn around on a successful project. I personally didnt have many issues with claude getting what I wanted outside of specifics such as the app originally not taking PCAP files, from now on I will remember and try to base any help with ai related projects similar to how I solved problems with this app.

The negatives do however exist to some degree. From an industry point of view and from people I have spoken to that work in the field or have researched AI is both risky and expensive. Ai is risky due to the fact if you dont use your own in house ai, you are essentially uploading your networks security information to an llm which is very much not a secure way to do things and can create unknown problems both technically and legally. Meanwhile making an in house AI solution is a good way to avoid these problems, with the caveat of being rather expensive.

At the end of the day my learnings come down to this, AI in the use of analyzing threat logs is a fantastic tool when combined with an actual person. Its very good at finding repetions or patterns in typical attacks, processing logs in a relatively short time, and as light or heavy technically on the hardware you are running it on as youd like. It still isnt perfect however with it strugling with detecting less reptitious attacks, potentially legally problematic, pricey, and like humans AI can always just be wrong. Luckily if properly used by a person I believe this will make the workflow of cybersecurity agents working in this specfic part of cybersecurity have both a more efficent and accurate workflow, but we will have to see.
